>> Steve Kinney: So
before we talk about AppSync,
which is GraphQL as a service on AWS.
We should probably have enough GraphQL
now, so know like, what is GraphQL, right?
That's probably helpful for understanding
why AppSync might be really cool.
We're not gonna go super
in depth into GraphQL,
it's called enough GraphQL
to be dangerous for reason.
So GraphQL is a data query language
developed by, and used by Facebook.
Which is like, that I guest just
like an appeal to authority, right?
Well, does it work in production?
Apparently.
So, there's a few kind of basic
terminology that we need to know.
Queries, get you stuff from the database.
Mutations, change stuff in the database.
Subscriptions, subscribe you
to changes in your database.
And the schema,
is what your data look like.
It's basically your API contract, typo.
Alright, so GraphQL, and
this is a GraphQL strongly typed.
This is like a thing that might
be in our GraphQL database.
So you can see that,
anything with an exclamation point
at the end is a required field.
Anything without an exclamation
point is an optional field.
So here an ID, an ID is really just a
string, but it has to be a unique string.
Which makes sense for ID's, right.
Some kind of protein is a string,
bread is a string and
the toppings is an array of strings,
right.
So this defines, what the sandwich is.
Now, we can also define like,
what the queries are.
All right, so getting an individual one,
you give it an ID and
you're gonna get back one.
You can say like,
okay I wanna get all of them,
you're gonna get an array of all of them.
Right, it makes, you're basically
defining the kind of like.
How the schema of your
database looks like,
what the API contract is going to be.
And then, there's a series of resolvers
that figure out what we do and
what the client like when we get
back from the client database.
What's really cool about this is,
is basically,
you just define everything
about your data.
And then clients,
also known as like, in our case,
front end engineers,
can tell you what they need.
Right, rather than the constantly
that I have to do sometimes which is,
back in engineer, I made an API please?
Right, like okay.
So I have to make a new rest end point or
like worse.
Is like sometimes, like okay,
I have to hit like seven different end
points to get all
the information that I need.
This allows to say,
here's what I need, you send it
off to the GraphQL service, right?
It hands it to the resolvers,
it goes ahead and
gets you all of the different like.
Figures out the payload to
give back to you, and so
if your needs change,
like based on your UI.
You change your GraphQL query, you get
back different stuff, which is kinda cool.
So this is a query, for getting one thing,
getting all the things, so
this is how we do a mutation, right.
This again, this is not actually
how it happens in the database,
right, cuz that would be really
cool if you just wrote that.
I mean, let me be really honest,
that's like it is kinda really just that.
But there is some like magic under
the hood that we just go and like, and
don't think about.
So here we say a mutation will take
a input, and return back a new item.
And a query,
we can go get an individual one.
This is actually,
we defined what a query was before.
This is actually, querying the database.
So here we're gonna get all the different
properties of that, but let's say,
I only need the ID of the protein.
I just ask for those, and the API's
only gonna return me those properties.
So before we define a query,
this is actually queries the data base.
So in this case we say, okay I want to
get the sandwich with this giving ID and
here is the properties that I want.
You only need a few properties, you don't
find just the one that you need and
it would just give you those.
So yeah,
the kind of the consumer of the API,
has a lot more control about what they
need to get back to create the UI.
Than in traditional rest API's, where
it's like, okay you hit this endpoint.
Here's everything,
filter out the things you need,
manipulate the data as you need it for the
UI, so on and so forth, so it's very cool.
Here is how we like,
this is adding something to the database,
you'll notice that you can see like,
createBanhMi twice.
The first one is kind of,
think about it in java script,
you can have anonymous functions and
named functions.
We're just naming this mutation,
that helps some client libraries
cache what's going on.
Really what's happening in the second
one is in that schema before,
when we created a mutation,
we said what is it like.
What does it mean to create one?
So here we have the input of all
the data that's gonna go into it, and
then what we get back from the database.
So if we only needed the ID back, we could
just say like, okay, only give me the ID.
So before when we had those dynamo
DV databases, what they called API.
And we weren't getting back the ID and
we didn't like the API.
This gives us a lot more
control on our end,
to define what exactly we
need from any given endpoint.
What we wanna get back when we
create something, update something,
delete something, so on and so
forth, we get that control.